content/measuring.md, before:

---
title: "Measuring"
date: 2018-05-28T14:42:30-07:00
tags: ["guide"]

---
How to measure a track.

<!--more-->
Find the venue in Google Maps. Zoom the map. Then right click the inner line/rail of lane one.

Choose "Measure Distance" from the context menu.

Then, click on the inside line of lane one across the infield from the first point. A box will open at the bottom of your screen with measurement in meters.

Note: This measuring technique will work for single-radius and double-bend tracks. Unconventional tracks such as square or pentagon shaped tracks are not currently supported. 

Note: Take advantage of any reference lines on the infield, such as a soccer penalty box or football yardage lines. These will help your measurement line be as straight/perpendicular as possible.  

Note: For simplicity/standardization our measurements are from the inner line/rail of lane one rather than the imaginary "measure line" in the IAAF rule book, which can be 10-30 cm out from the inner line of lane one.

Note: Zoom the map as far as you can while still keeping both inner edges of lane one in the window. This will make the precision as high as possible.

Commit message:

call out the requirement for a common start/finish line
track must be a loop

content/measuring.md, after:

---
title: "Measuring"
date: 2018-05-28T14:42:30-07:00
tags: ["guide"]

---
How to measure a track.

<!--more-->
Find the venue in Google Maps. Zoom the map. Then right click the inner line/rail of lane one.

Choose "Measure Distance" from the context menu.

Then, click on the inside line of lane one across the infield from the first point. A box will open at the bottom of your screen with measurement in meters.

Note: This measuring technique will work for single-radius and double-bend tracks. Unconventional tracks such as square or pentagon shaped tracks are not currently supported. The track must have a common start/finish line.

Note: Take advantage of any reference lines on the infield, such as a soccer penalty box or football yardage lines. These will help your measurement line be as straight/perpendicular as possible.  

Note: For simplicity/standardization our measurements are from the inner line/rail of lane one rather than the imaginary "measure line" in the IAAF rule book, which can be 10-30 cm out from the inner line of lane one.

Note: Zoom the map as far as you can while still keeping both inner edges of lane one in the window. This will make the precision as high as possible.
