content/speed-methodology.md, before:

---
title: "Speed Methodology"
date: 2018-05-27T13:44:33-07:00
tags: ["guide"]

---
How is track speed determined?
<!--more-->

## Overview

Currently, speed is determined exclusively by track geometry.

An "equal quadrant" track means the track is 50% turn and 50% straight. This is a neutral track. A 400m track with 200 meters of turns and 200 meters of straights would have a speed rating of `0.00`.

Positive speed ratings mean total turn distance is greater than 50%. Negative speed ratings mean total straight distance is greater than 50%.

The more turn distance a track has the more gradual/shallow the turn angle and thus its speed is faster.

The speed rating for a track is the number of meters above or below that of an equal quadrant track. A track with a combined 220m of turns and 180m of straights would have a speed rating of `20.00`.

## Measurements

The key data field collected for each track is the turn diameter in meters.

See the <a href="/measuring/">Measuring Guide</a> for more detail.

## Double Bend Tracks

Not all tracks have perfectly circular turns with a single radius. In particular, tracks which accommodate a soccer or football field within it will have oblong/oval-shaped turns. It is difficult to take accurate measurements of these types of tracks from satellite photography. Treating these like single-radius tracks simplifies the measurement drastically and introduces a small but acceptable range of additional inaccuracy (5-12%).

## Resources

[IAAF Track and Field Facilities Manual (2008)](https://www.iaaf.org/download/download?filename=77c027b0-46b8-405d-9ffd-889fa28e3f6e.pdf&urlslug=IAAF%20Track%20and%20Field%20Facilities%20). See section 1.2.3 in particular for example track geometries.

Commit message:

adjust turn distance of double bend tracks

content/speed-methodology.md, after:

---
title: "Speed Methodology"
date: 2018-05-27T13:44:33-07:00
tags: ["guide"]

---
How is track speed determined?
<!--more-->

## Overview

Currently, speed is determined exclusively by track geometry.

An "equal quadrant" track means the track is 50% turn and 50% straight. This is a neutral track. A 400m track with 200 meters of turns and 200 meters of straights would have a speed rating of `0.00`.

Positive speed ratings mean total turn distance is greater than 50%. Negative speed ratings mean total straight distance is greater than 50%.

The more turn distance a track has the more gradual/shallow the turn angle and thus its speed is faster.

The speed rating for a track is the number of meters above or below that of an equal quadrant track, normalized for the distance of the track. A 400m track with a combined 220m of turns and 180m of straights would have a speed rating of `10.00`.

## Measurements

The key data field collected for each track is the turn diameter in meters.

See the <a href="/measuring/">Measuring Guide</a> for more detail.

## Double Bend Tracks

Not all tracks have perfectly circular turns with a single radius. In particular, tracks which accommodate a soccer or football field within it will have oblong/oval-shaped turns. It is difficult to take accurate measurements of these types of tracks from satellite photography. Treating these like single-radius tracks simplifies the measurement drastically and introduces a small but acceptable range of additional inaccuracy (5-12%).

Edit: double bend track measurements are automatically adjusted.

## Resources

[IAAF Track and Field Facilities Manual (2008)](https://www.iaaf.org/download/download?filename=77c027b0-46b8-405d-9ffd-889fa28e3f6e.pdf&urlslug=IAAF%20Track%20and%20Field%20Facilities%20). See section 1.2.3 in particular for example track geometries.
