content/log/2018-10-07-notes.md, before:

---
title: "2018-10-07 Notes"
date: 2018-10-06T23:06:31-07:00
tags: []

---

<!--more-->

cal poly slo

https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Terry_Fox_Field

## physics

train track geometry: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Track_geometry
curvature: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Track_geometry#Curvature
racing line: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Racing_line
racing line physics tutorial: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=N8qBdOs0s1E

## ops dashboard

goals:

- [ ] open source the terraform behind laps.run
- [ ] create a status page. status.laps.run
  - [x] create cname record in cloudflare
  - [ ] configure [ssl page rule](https://blog.uptimerobot.com/configuring-cloudflare-for-status-pages-with-custom-domains/)
- [ ] create an ops page. ops.laps.run

### todo (sprinkled below with commentary):

- [x] create laps.run ops-data s3 bucket w/ versioning enabled. private.
- [x] authorize travis.ci aws user to read/write this new bucket

ops s3 bucket data file structure:

option 1:

```
- build/
  - 511.json
  - 512.json
  - 513.json
  - 514.json
  - 515.json
- deploy/
  - preview/
    - 512.json
    - 513.json
    - 514.json
  - production/
    - 511.json
    - 515.json
```

option 2:

```
- 511/
  - build.json
  - production-deploy.json
- 512/
  - build.json
  - preview-deploy.json
- 513/
  - build.json
  - preview-deploy.json
- 514/
  - build.json
  - preview-deploy.json
- 515/
  - build.json
  - production-deploy.json
```

my hunch is that option 1 matches the final ops website structure. there will be some linking between build types, but that is secondary to the core structure which puts event type first. build type second. this will also allow the different builds to drop their file into s3 more independently of the other build types. (i know, s3 is not actually a filesystem, you don't need to `mkdir -p` before you can put a file in a prefix).

i still want to get the timing markers into the build, and deploy data. in place edit of the data file, json/yaml, whichever. `yq` might be a more convenient choice than `jq`. since yaml and json are interchangable inputs for `hugo`, i should go with whichever tooling i like better. `yq` can also render json.

- [x] get `yq` cli installed in travis build

- [x] get `aws` cli installed in travis build

deploy via aws cli to preview site, in my bin/ scripts, using the PR sha in the preview url. use that url in the PR comment. this url will give distinct urls per build, making multiple preview link comments in a PR thread each individually usable. with a single url per PR as currently done, the earlier PR comments are misleading as those deploys over overwritten by the newer ones.

- [x] get sha into preview url

- [x] assemble build data payload with build timers
- [x] push build data in current travis build to ops data bucket

- [x] assemble prod deploy data payload with build timers
- [x] push production-deploy data in current travis build to ops data bucket

- [x] assemble preview deploy data payload with build timers
- [x] push preview-deploy data in current travis build to ops data bucket

status page appears to be redirecting to stats.uptimerobot.com but i'm seeing a unrendered template in plaintext. tried some googling but didn't find anything. certificate appears happy in the browser.

next steps:

- [x] pull down some sample data files from s3. build, preview, production.
- [x] create local first iteration of hugo site for ops in a subdirectory of this repo, based on data from s3
- [ ] trigger re-build of ops site on every build of laps.run after new data has arrived. using stages.

```
hugo new site ops-website
cd !$
aws --profile personal s3 sync s3://laps.run-ops-data-private/ data/

tree data/

data
├── build
│   ├── 0.yml
│   ├── 608.yml
│   ├── 609.yml
│   ├── 610.yml
│   ├── 611.yml
│   └── 612.yml
└── deploy
    ├── preview
    │   ├── 608.yml
    │   ├── 609.yml
    │   ├── 610.yml
    │   ├── 611.yml
    │   └── 612.yml
    └── production
        └── 612.yml
```

[data templates](https://gohugo.io/templates/data-templates/)

I think we probably want to load the entire contents of the bucket. then, generate the content/ subdirectories and pages based on those files. most likely putting each file content to the frontmatter of each file.

actually, let's skip the middleman. we can sync the contents of the bucket down to the content/ directory. I should decide whether it matters for preview and production should be nested under deploy/, or to flatten it.

---

status page completed: https://status.laps.run. final config:

cloudflare dns: CNAME status -> stats.uptimerobot.com
cloudflare page rules:
  - `http://*laps.run/*` - always use https
  - `*status.laps.run/*` - full ssl

---

- [ ] convert .yml to .md.
- [ ] identify any missing computed_track_fields
- [ ] add `---` yaml doc above and below frontmatter. leave body empty. frontmatter only.
- [ ] add a list of most recent items in each type to index page
- [ ] create a single template for each type, add some basic content
- [ ] add links between types with the same build id.
- [ ] make sure there are no builds with both preview and production deploys
- [ ] add default list.html which iterates over all items with permalink.

- [ ] setup ops website
  - [ ] s3 bucket
  - [ ] s3 bucket public policy
  - [ ] s3 bucket access for ci user
  - [ ] dns record
- [ ] add ops website build stage
  - [ ] pull s3 data
  - [ ] transform
  - [ ] hugo build
  - [ ] gather very basic travis metadata, write to ci.json
  - [ ] push public/ to website bucket

Commit message:

ops site, squash merge notes

content/log/2018-10-07-notes.md, after:

---
title: "2018-10-07 Notes"
date: 2018-10-06T23:06:31-07:00
tags: []

---

<!--more-->

cal poly slo

https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Terry_Fox_Field

## physics

train track geometry: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Track_geometry
curvature: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Track_geometry#Curvature
racing line: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Racing_line
racing line physics tutorial: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=N8qBdOs0s1E

## ops dashboard

goals:

- [ ] open source the terraform behind laps.run
- [ ] create a status page. status.laps.run
  - [x] create cname record in cloudflare
  - [ ] configure [ssl page rule](https://blog.uptimerobot.com/configuring-cloudflare-for-status-pages-with-custom-domains/)
- [ ] create an ops page. ops.laps.run

### todo (sprinkled below with commentary):

- [x] create laps.run ops-data s3 bucket w/ versioning enabled. private.
- [x] authorize travis.ci aws user to read/write this new bucket

ops s3 bucket data file structure:

option 1:

```
- build/
  - 511.json
  - 512.json
  - 513.json
  - 514.json
  - 515.json
- deploy/
  - preview/
    - 512.json
    - 513.json
    - 514.json
  - production/
    - 511.json
    - 515.json
```

option 2:

```
- 511/
  - build.json
  - production-deploy.json
- 512/
  - build.json
  - preview-deploy.json
- 513/
  - build.json
  - preview-deploy.json
- 514/
  - build.json
  - preview-deploy.json
- 515/
  - build.json
  - production-deploy.json
```

my hunch is that option 1 matches the final ops website structure. there will be some linking between build types, but that is secondary to the core structure which puts event type first. build type second. this will also allow the different builds to drop their file into s3 more independently of the other build types. (i know, s3 is not actually a filesystem, you don't need to `mkdir -p` before you can put a file in a prefix).

i still want to get the timing markers into the build, and deploy data. in place edit of the data file, json/yaml, whichever. `yq` might be a more convenient choice than `jq`. since yaml and json are interchangable inputs for `hugo`, i should go with whichever tooling i like better. `yq` can also render json.

- [x] get `yq` cli installed in travis build

- [x] get `aws` cli installed in travis build

deploy via aws cli to preview site, in my bin/ scripts, using the PR sha in the preview url. use that url in the PR comment. this url will give distinct urls per build, making multiple preview link comments in a PR thread each individually usable. with a single url per PR as currently done, the earlier PR comments are misleading as those deploys over overwritten by the newer ones.

- [x] get sha into preview url

- [x] assemble build data payload with build timers
- [x] push build data in current travis build to ops data bucket

- [x] assemble prod deploy data payload with build timers
- [x] push production-deploy data in current travis build to ops data bucket

- [x] assemble preview deploy data payload with build timers
- [x] push preview-deploy data in current travis build to ops data bucket

status page appears to be redirecting to stats.uptimerobot.com but i'm seeing a unrendered template in plaintext. tried some googling but didn't find anything. certificate appears happy in the browser.

next steps:

- [x] pull down some sample data files from s3. build, preview, production.
- [x] create local first iteration of hugo site for ops in a subdirectory of this repo, based on data from s3
- [ ] trigger re-build of ops site on every build of laps.run after new data has arrived. using stages.

```
hugo new site ops-website
cd !$
aws --profile personal s3 sync s3://laps.run-ops-data-private/ data/

tree data/

data
├── build
│   ├── 0.yml
│   ├── 608.yml
│   ├── 609.yml
│   ├── 610.yml
│   ├── 611.yml
│   └── 612.yml
└── deploy
    ├── preview
    │   ├── 608.yml
    │   ├── 609.yml
    │   ├── 610.yml
    │   ├── 611.yml
    │   └── 612.yml
    └── production
        └── 612.yml
```

[data templates](https://gohugo.io/templates/data-templates/)

I think we probably want to load the entire contents of the bucket. then, generate the content/ subdirectories and pages based on those files. most likely putting each file content to the frontmatter of each file.

actually, let's skip the middleman. we can sync the contents of the bucket down to the content/ directory. I should decide whether it matters for preview and production should be nested under deploy/, or to flatten it.

---

status page completed: https://status.laps.run. final config:

cloudflare dns: CNAME status -> stats.uptimerobot.com
cloudflare page rules:
  - `http://*laps.run/*` - always use https
  - `*status.laps.run/*` - full ssl

---

- [ ] convert .yml to .md.
- [ ] identify any missing computed_track_fields
- [ ] add `---` yaml doc above and below frontmatter. leave body empty. frontmatter only.
- [ ] add a list of most recent items in each type to index page
- [ ] create a single template for each type, add some basic content
- [ ] add links between types with the same build id.
- [ ] make sure there are no builds with both preview and production deploys
- [ ] add default list.html which iterates over all items with permalink.

- [x] setup ops website
  - [x] s3 bucket
  - [x] s3 bucket public policy
  - [x] s3 bucket access for ci user
  - [x] dns record
- [ ] add ops website build stage
  - [ ] pull s3 data
  - [ ] transform
  - [ ] hugo build
  - [ ] gather very basic travis metadata, write to ci.json
  - [ ] push public/ to website bucket

i disabled squash merges to master going forward. i think it confuses the lineage of the project. Especially now that i'm capturing build and preview deploy data for pre-merge commits, i think it will be helpful to not rewrite pre-marge history for linking back to this data. otherwise with a squash the link is obscured. I think i'd rather have catchup commits in branches, even if it makes the lineage untidy. But there is build data associated with those catchup commits that i care about.

i think it should be fairly straightforward to move the laps.run terraform out of my main tf repo and open source it.

first test upload of ops site:

```
cd ops-website
aws --profile personal s3 sync s3://laps.run-ops-data-private/ content/
hugo
aws --profile personal s3 sync public s3://ops.laps.run/
open https://ops.laps.run
```
